README.md, before:

# Workflow

## Overview

Workflow is a utility for configuring and managing
simulation experiments. Workflow sets up an experiment
using a config file, then runs the experiment as
a series of steps and decision points. It organizes
output files for you and records the experiment progress
in a trace file.


## Config File

A TOML config file is specified when running the Workflow
command script `workflow.py <config_file.toml>`. An
example config file config_files/examples/demo/demo_config.toml
is provided.

The config file defines the parameters of the overall
experiment, the initial experiment state, and the specific
steps and decisions involved in the experiment.


## Output Files

The out_dir you specify in the config file tells Workflow
where you like to save the results of running experiments,
in general or for a particular project. When you run
Workflow it will create a subdirectory in the out_dir with
your experiment's name, then another subdirectory in that
with the run number for the experiment. For example, if
you specify an outdir of /home/username/my_project/my_results
and the experiment name is experiment_a and it is the 
first time running that experiment, Workflow will save files
to /home/username/my_project/my_results/experiment_a/run_1.
Workflow determines the run number based on the highest number
run in the experiment directory. If a relative path is provided
it will be treated as relative to the directory that contains
the config file.

TODO clean up this description

The first level for an experiment typically contains
directories for each of the primary analyses produced by
cpptraj. For example, control_1/, control_2/, control_3/,
test_1/, test_2/, test_3/ would be present for an
experiment with a control and a test condition and 3
replicate simulations. Within each of these directories is
the PDB file output of cpptraj along with directories for
each of the secondary analyses, such as control_1/rmsd/
for the output of the analyze_rmsd script on the
control_1 dataset.

### Trace File

A JSON trace file is output such that a run of an 
experiment can be recorded and reproduced. This
records all steps performed by Workflow as well as
state changes and decisions. The file is intended
to be read/written by the utility while still being
understandable by a human. Data is streamed to the
file while the experiment is running, so it can
be watched with the "tail -f" command on Linux or
by consumed by visualization tools.


## Data

Workflow's ExperimentManager maintains experiment state
in a data dictionary with name-value pairs. Any type of
data can be saved, but consider putting commonly used
types in the data_types/ directory. Also, make sure the
data is serializable to JSON if you want it to be
recorded correctly in the trace file. Data is global for
the whole experiment but consider using dot and 
underscore notations to represent nested and internal data,
respectively (e.g. my_part._my_state). A missing data is
represented by None so that should be checked for,
along with the type, as needed. It is important to use the
API for reading inputs and writing outputs so as to
maintain a coherent state and record all data changes
to the trace file. Do NOT try to bypass these unless you
like dealing with buggy and brittle experiments.


## Experiment Parts

Workflow's ExperimentManager conducts an experiment
as a sequence of steps and decision points. Each part
of the experiment needs a unique name identifier. Use
dot notation to refer to nested parts (e.g. flow_1.step_1).

A 'step' is usually a single analysis task. Each type
of step is defined as a class in the part_types/step directory.
Steps are intended as re-usable 'building blocks' and should
be small in scope. Each step can be configured with 'input_names'
and 'output_names' dictionaries, each mapping the names of data
in the manager's data dictionary to the argument names the
step implementation expects. Each step can also specify the 
'next_part' name of what to run automatically after the step
is finished.

A 'decision' is usually a single decision point, that
determines what step to do next in the experiment. Each
type of decision is defined as a class in the part_types/decision
directory. Decisions are intended as simple branches, like
if-else statements in the workflow. Each decision can be
configured with an 'input_names' dictionary (but no output_names
since a decision should not be changing data, only reading it to
make its choice). Each decision should also specify a 'next_part'
dictionary, mapping a part identifier to the route names the
decision implementation expects.

A 'flow' is a grouping of steps, decisions, and other flows.
Each type of flow is defined as a class in the part_types/flow
directory. Flows can be used to represent common sections of
experiments. Flows can also give special behavior to their
contained steps. For example, the 'parallel' flow runs all
the steps it contains in separate sub-processes to speed up
processing time.

If the manager encounters a situation where the 'next' part
of the experiment is None or invalid, or if a step/decision
crashes with an uncaught exception, it will prompt the
researcher to specify the identifier of the experiment
to go next or to end the experiment.

When adding a new step, decision, or flow be sure to put
the class name in the 'part_types' dictionary in part_types.py.

Commit message:

Clean up comments and documentation

README.md, after:

# Workflow

## Overview

Workflow is a utility for configuring and managing
simulation experiments. Workflow sets up an experiment
using a config file, then runs the experiment as
a series of steps and decision points. It organizes
output files for you and records the experiment progress
in a trace file.


## Config File

A TOML config file is specified when running the Workflow
command script `workflow.py <config_file.toml>`. An
example config file config_files/examples/demo/demo_config.toml
is provided.

The config file defines the parameters of the overall
experiment, the initial experiment state, and the specific
steps and decisions involved in the experiment.


## Output Files

The out_dir you specify in the config file tells Workflow
where you like to save the results of running experiments,
in general or for a particular project. When you run
Workflow it will create a subdirectory in the out_dir with
your experiment's name, then another subdirectory in that
with the run number for the experiment. For example, if
you specify an outdir of /home/username/my_project/my_results
and the experiment name is experiment_a and it is the 
first time running that experiment, Workflow will save files
to /home/username/my_project/my_results/experiment_a/run_1.
Workflow determines the run number based on the highest number
run in the experiment directory. If a relative path is provided
it will be treated as relative to the directory that contains
the config file.

### Trace File

A JSON trace file is output such that a run of an 
experiment can be recorded and reproduced. This
records all steps performed by Workflow as well as
state changes and decisions. The file is intended
to be read/written by the utility and other supporting tools
while still being understandable by a human. Data is streamed
to the file while the experiment is running, so it can
be watched with the "tail -f" command on Linux or
by consumed by visualization tools in real time.


## Data

Workflow's ExperimentManager maintains experiment state
in a data dictionary with name-value pairs. Any type of
data can be saved, but consider putting commonly used
types in the data_types/ directory. Also, make sure the
data is serializable to JSON if you want it to be
recorded correctly in the trace file. Data is global for
the whole experiment but consider using dot and 
underscore notations to represent nested and internal data,
respectively (e.g. my_part._private_data). A missing data is
represented by None so that should be checked for,
along with the type, as needed. It is important to use the
API in experiment_parts.py for reading inputs and writing
outputs so as to maintain a coherent state and record all
data changes to the trace file. Do NOT try to bypass these
unless you like dealing with buggy and brittle experiments.


## Experiment Parts

Workflow's ExperimentManager conducts an experiment
as a sequence of steps and decision points. Each part
of the experiment needs a unique name identifier. Use
dot notation to refer to nested parts (e.g. flow_1.step_1).

A 'step' is usually a single analysis task. Each type
of step is defined as a class in the part_types/step directory.
Steps are intended as re-usable 'building blocks' and should
be small in scope. Each step can be configured with 'input_names'
and 'output_names' dictionaries, each mapping the names of data
in the manager's data dictionary to the argument names the
step implementation expects. Each step can also specify the 
'next_part' name of what to run automatically after the step
is finished.

A 'decision' is usually a single decision point, that
determines what step to do next in the experiment. Each
type of decision is defined as a class in the part_types/decision
directory. Decisions are intended as simple branches, like
if-else statements in the workflow. Each decision can be
configured with an 'input_names' dictionary (but no output_names
since a decision should not be changing data, only reading it to
make its choice). Each decision should also specify a 'next_part'
dictionary, mapping a part identifier to the route names the
decision implementation expects.

A 'flow' is a grouping of steps, decisions, and other flows.
Each type of flow is defined as a class in the part_types/flow
directory. Flows can be used to represent common sections of
experiments. Flows can also give special behavior to their
contained steps. For example, the 'load' flow copies all the
parts from another config file before running them.

If the manager encounters a situation where the 'next' part
of the experiment is None or invalid, or if a step/decision
crashes with an uncaught exception, it will prompt the
researcher to specify the part of the experiment to go next
or to end the experiment.

### Creating Parts

When adding a new step, decision, or flow be sure to put
the class name in the 'part_types' dictionary in part_types.py.
